contentment Content from https://positivepsychology.com/negativeemotions/:We all experience emotions from an early age. They are a part of our ingrained DNA. As adults attempting to navigate the often chaotic world of modern life, the range of emotions we experience in a day can change dramatically. In this article, we’re taking a deep dive into emotions – specifically negative emotions – what causes them, the effects of them, and how we can use them to create a greater sense of wellbeing. Before you read on, we thought you might like to download our three Emotional Intelligence Exercises for free. These sciencebased exercises will not only enhance your ability to understand and work with your negative emotions but will also give you the tools to foster the emotional intelligence of your clients, students or employees. Emotions – Emotions are regarded as ‘lower level’ responses. They first occur in the subcortical areas of the brain such as the amygdala and the ventromedial prefrontal cortices. These areas are responsible for producing biochemical reactions that have a direct impact on your physical state. The amygdala has also been shown to play a role in the release of neurotransmitters that are essential for memory, which is why emotional memories are often stronger and easier to recall. As you read this article you’ll be able to see how the amygdala plays an important role in how we experience our emotions, as well as how we respond to our emotions as an individual. It’s important to distinguish between what an emotion is and what a feeling is. Where emotions can have a more generalized experience across all humans, feelings are more subjective and are influenced by our personal experiences and interpretations of our world based on those experiences. Because they are so subjective, they can’t be measured the way emotions can. Feelings – Feelings are seen as the next step in the process of emotions, which tend to be our reactions to the different emotions we receive. Emulations have a stronger physical grounding than feelings meaning researchers find them easier to measure objectively through physical cues such as blood flow, heart rate, brain activity, facial expressions, and body language. As mentioned, Plutchik paired the basic emotions with their polar opposites to help further develop his theory. While the two are interconnected, there’m a bigger difference than you may realize. Eckman (1999) identified six initial basic emotions: He later expanded on this to include a further eleven