anger or sadnessContent from https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/health/healthyliving/negativeemotions:Negative emotions can be described as any feeling which causes you to be miserable and sad. Emotions that can become negative are hate, anger, jealousy and sadness. These emotions make you dislike yourself and others, and reduce your confidence and selfesteem, and general life satisfaction. Examples some of these negative emotions may include: Have you experienced this emotion? When or usually you feel this usually be involved is involved is any negative emotions? But can you do to prevent the negative emotions in your life? There are a number of coping strategies to deal with negative emotions. The information and materials contained on this website are not intended to constitute a comprehensive guide concerning all aspects of the therapy, product or treatment described on the website. All users are urged to always seek advice from a registered health care professional for diagnosis and answers to their medical questions and to ascertain whether the particular therapy, service, product and treatment is suitable in their circumstances. The State of Victoria and the Department of Health shall not bear any liability for reliance by any user on any of the information contained in this website. Information about a therapy or treatment does not in any way endorse or support such therapy or service, or is not a substitute for advice from your doctor or other registered health professional. This web site is managed and authorised by The Department of Public Health, State Government of Victoria, Australia © Copyright State of Victorian 2024. Content from www.hopkinsmedicine.org/about/communityhealth/johnshopkinsbayview/services/calledtocare/recognizecopewithnegativeemotion:Respiratory viruses continue to circulate in Maryland, so masking remains strongly recommended when you visit Johns Hopkins Medicine clinical locations in Maryland. To protect your loved one, please do not visit if you are sick or have a COVID19 positive test result. Get more resources on masking and COVID 19 precautions. Caregivers experience a variety of emotions in relation to their caregiving responsibilities. All emotions come about in this way, whether positive or negative. Yet, in the right context, these feelings are completely natural. They make us feel bad, sap our energy and lower our selfesteem. That’s why we find it hard to cope when we experience them. The longer this goes on, the more set the problem becomes. Negative emotions stop us from thinking and